# Airlines_Reservation-System

# 1.Requirements

# Introduction

In science and technology, the desire for improvement is a constant subject which triggers
advancements. This is visible in every ramification and the airline industry is not an exemption.
Airline reservation systems were first introduced in the late 1950s as relatively simple standalone
systems to control flight inventory, maintain flight schedules, seat assignments and aircraft
loading. Today modern airline reservation systems are comprehensive suites of products to
provide systems that assist with a variety of airline management tasks and service customer
needs from the time of initial reservation through completion of the flight.

  The World Wide Web has become tremendously popular over the last four years, and currently
most of the airlines have made provision for online reservation of their flights. The Internet has
become a major resource for people looking for making reservations online without the hassle of
meeting travel agents by implementing an online reservation system this ensures that reservation
are not only generated by the airline own staff but also by any travel agent using a Global
Distribution system or other airlines that have a multilateral Interline Traffic Agreement with the
airline.

     A Computer Reservations System is a computerized system used to store and retrieve
information and conduct transactions related to travel. Computer reservation systems are
classified as Passenger Service Systems (PSS) which handles a series of critical functions for the
airline. For an Airline, the reservation system is a mission critical system that should use the
latest state of the art technology to provide for all flight reservations on a robust platform, which
is flexible and can be adapted to any style of airline. Secure and stable systems are vital to the
airline industry which is why companies spend many years designing an architecture specifically
suited to the nature of the airline industry which often requires tens of thousands of users to
access and use the system simultaneously.
